# Documatic

Easy to use documentation generator for Python projects.

Documatic is an easy-to-use documentation generator for Python that helps
developers generate documentation for their Python packages. This documentation
generator supports both HTML and Markdown output, with the default output being
Markdown.

Check out documatic's [documentation](/docs/documatic) generated by itself.

- [Basic usage example](#basic-usage-example)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Using the command-line](#using-the-command-line)

## Basic usage example

After installing Documatic, you can generate the documentation for your Python
package just by running documatic in the root of your repository.

```
python -m documatic
```

That's it, no configuration needed - it will create a docs directory with the
documentation.

## Installation

To install Documatic, clone the repository from GitHub:

```
git clone https://github.com/aspizu/documatic
```

Install it using `pip`:

```
cd documatic
pip install -e .
```

To use the HTMLWriter, you need to install the `markdown-it-py` library:

```
pip install markdown-it-py
```

## Using the command-line

### Options:

- `-h, --help` - show the **help** message and exit
- `--input INPUT` - Path to a **directory** containing a Python package. This directory must contain an `__init__.py` file.
- `--output OUTPUT` - Path to a **directory** to render documentation into. Will be cleared. Defaults to `docs/`
- `--writer WRITER` - **Writer** used to render documentation files. Available writers: `HTMLWriter`, `MarkdownWriter`. Defaults to `MarkdownWriter`.
